# Gria2-Viewer Documentation
# Introduction
Gria2-Viewer is a virtual reality (VR) application for viewing the Gria2 (GluR2) gene. It is made by Jimmy Fan Zhang as part of his Master's Bioinformatics thesis at RIT. This document provides supporting information and code documentation on the current version of the software. For information on the Master's thesis, please see email jfz8009@g.rit.edu.

# Table of Contents
[TOC]
# System Requirements & Installation

### Hardware
#### Minimum Specs
* VR-Capable PC
    * Graphics Card: NVIDIA GTX 1050 Ti / AMD Radeon RX 470 or greater
    * Alternative Graphics Card: NVIDIA GTX 960 4GB / AMD Radeon R9 290 or greater
    * CPU: Intel i3-6100 / AMD FX4350 or greater
    * Memory: 8GB+ RAM
    * Video Output: Compatible HDMI 1.3 video output
    * USB Ports: 1x USB 3.0 port, plus 2x USB 2.0 ports
*  Oculus Rift CV1 (DK2 not tested)
*  Leap Motion Controller

#### Recommended PC Specs
* Graphics Card: NVIDIA GTX 1060 / AMD Radeon RX 480 or greater
* Alternative Graphics Card: NVIDIA GTX 970 / AMD Radeon R9 290 or greater
* CPU: Intel i5-4590 equivalent or greater
* Memory: 8GB+ RAM
* Video Output: Compatible HDMI 1.3 video output
* USB Ports: 3x USB 3.0 ports, plus 1x USB 2.0 port
* OS: Windows 10

#### Exact PC Specs Used
The Gria2-Viewer project is tested on the following hardware:
* Eluktronics P650RP6 Premium VR Ready Gaming Laptop 
* Graphics Card: 6GB GDDR5 NVIDIA GeForce GTX 1060 
* CPU: Intel Core i7-6700HQ Quad Core 
* Memory: 8GB DDR4 RAM
* Storage: 128GB Performance SSD + 1TB HDD 
* OS: Windows 10 Home 
* Full HD 15.6” IPS

### Software*
* OS: Windows 8.1 or newer
* Unity 5.4.2f
* Leap Motion Software Modules:
    * SDK: 3.2.0+45899 (Orion) [Download Here](https://developer.leapmotion.com/releases/?category=orion) 
    * Core Assets: 4.1.5 [Download Here](https://developer.leapmotion.com/releases/core-asset-415)
    * Interaction Engine v0.3.0 [Download Here](https://developer.leapmotion.com/releases/interaction-engine-030)
    * Hands Module 2.1.0 [Download Here](https://developer.leapmotion.com/releases/hands-module-210)
* Oculus SDK 1.11.0 [Download Here](https://developer.oculus.com/downloads/package/oculus-platform-sdk/1.11.0/)
* Hover UI Kit 2.0.0 beta [Download Here](https://github.com/aestheticinteractive/Hover-UI-Kit/releases/tag/v2.0.0B)

**\*Software must be exact versions!!**
Other software includes: git and your favorite text editor.

# Installation Instructions
Components should be installed in the following order:
1. Unity
2. Plug in and install Oculus device
3. Oculus SDK
4. Attach Leap Motion sensor to Oculus Headset; install Leap Motion Software
5. Download Gria2-Viewer from github [here](https://github.com/imyjimmy/gria2-viewer) and open `Assets/gria2-viewer-001.unity` with Unity
6. Leap Motion SDK
7. Leap Motion Core Assets
8. Leap Motion Hands Module
9. Leap Motion Interaction Engine
10. Hover UI Kit

At each of these installations it is **highly recommended** that you make a bare-bones Unity project to test that the components have been added. Use the provided instructions from each of the software vendors. Requires working knowledge of git and preferably bash for Windows.

# Finding Your Way Around Gria2-Viewer
The "insides" of Gria2-Viewer may be intimidating, especially the first time anyone looks at it. However, certain directories are more important than others, and some files / directories are generated by Unity and don't need to be touched. 

## Directory Stucture
Assuming that the Gria2-Viewer project has been downloaded and all components above have been installed successfully, the directory structure for the Gria2-Viewer project is as follows:

```text
Gria2-Viewer/ top level directory of the entire project.
|--.git/ 
    contains important files for github such as pointers to 
    other remote branches.
|--.gitignore list of files that are ignored by git.
|--Assets/ 
    contains the code for Gria2-Viewer. Most of the changes 
    you wish to make to customize Gria2-Viewer are this directory.
    |--Editor/
    |--Hover/
    |--LeapMotion/
    |--LeapMotionModules/
    |--Materials/
    |--OVR/
    |--Plotter/
    |--Plugins/
    |--Resources/
    |--Scripts/
    |--Standard Assets/
    |--Streaming Assets/
|--ProjectSettings/ contains global settings for this project.
|--README.md the readme file.
```
**If the Unity Project has not been opened, the following directories will not appear:**

```text
|--Builds/
|--Library/
|--obj/
|--Temp/
```
Do not worry about any of these directories. They are required for Unity to run this project properly. Do not modify.

If you use/attempt to open the project using Microsoft Visual Studio, there might be some `.sln` files at the top level. These are ignored by `.gitignore` and are specific to the particular user. If you're planning on using Visual Studio for this project, see their docs for instructions.


## The Assets/Scripts/ Directory
Most of the code changes and project revisions will be made in scripts which reside within the `Assets/Scripts/` directory. This directory contains lots of subdirectories which you won't ever touch, such as:
```text
|--Config/
|--Convert/
|--DisplayControl/
|--etc/
```

The subfolders and files you do need to worry about are as follows:
```text
|--Molecule/    
    contains a MVC-ish paradigm for "the molecule" 
    which is actually the Gria2 protein the project is configured to load.
|--ParseData/
|--surface/
|--View/
|--VRController/
|--VRModel/
|--Molecule3D.cs
|--ScenePreload_5L1B.cs
```

# Making Changes to Gria2-Viewer
There are two primary ways of making changes to Gria2-Viewer.

1. Open `Assets/gria2-viewer-001.unity`. Follow the Unity prompts to open the scene using Unity.
2. Use your favorite text editor (like Sublime 3) to open the `Assets/Scripts` directory. Navigate within the text editor to open & modify any script. Do not modify `.meta` files, but do include them in version control.

The first method opens the project in Unity and should be familiar with anyone who specializes in game design; the second method allows a traditional coder to modify individual modules. 

Both methods will most likely be used at the same time. The following are some examples of what you might want to do.

## Examples


# Software Architecture


# Known Bugs
The following is a list of bugs that currently exist within the software.

| Bug # | Description | Source | Proposed Action | Severity |
| --------| -------- | -------- | -------- | ------ |
| 001     | Text     | Text     |          |        | 

